6-0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Neil
And I'm Piffer. In this program we're talking about happiness
So what makes you happy Neil?
Oh, it makes me happy when I'm with a group of old friends and we're having a good laugh
How about you Piffer?
Cats make me very happy, especially if I see a cat
on the street that I don't know and it lets me give it a little stroke
That always makes me happy.
I'm not surprised, that sounds great
So happiness means different things to different people
But what's for sure is that most people would like to be happy
And the small Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has taken this to a new level
With the idea of gross national happiness or gnH
We'll be hearing more about gross national happiness
And learning some useful new vocabulary soon
But first Piffer I have a question for you
Of course, it's not just the people of Bhutan who want to be happy
In fact, the United Nations has even announced an international day of happiness
But when is that?
Is international happiness day a, the 20th of March, b, the 20th of June
Or c, the 20th of November
I'm going to say the 20th of June
Because it would be sunny in the UK
Okay, let's find out if you're right at the end of the programme
Now briefly, gross national happiness means
Preserving Bhutan's natural environment and culture
Through sustainable and eco-friendly development
Bhutan's government sees these goals
As more important than growing the economy at any cost
For many years Bhutan was closed to the outside world
The first foreign tourists arrived in 1974
And television was only introduced in 1999
The King of Bhutan wanted to modernise the country
And give it the benefits of modern technology
But without damaging traditional culture
So he invited outside experts to develop the idea of gross national happiness
One expert was Dr. Harvin Toe, speaking here to Charmaine Kozia
Presenter of BBC World Service programme, The Inquiry
So his idea was how could we modernise an open-our country
Without losing its culture, its environment
And its very strong social fabric
Because Bhutan was one of the only countries in Asia
who was never colonised therefore its culture is very intact and vibrant
Mainly Buddhist culture
And so the idea was that gross national happiness
Should be the focus on all government decisions and policies
So the well-being and happiness of citizens took them to stage
Bhutan has a strong social fabric
Meaning there are good relationships within communities
And these holds society together
Unlike other Asian countries Bhutan was never colonised
So its Buddhist culture and traditions are intact
They're complete and unspoiled
As a result the happiness of Bhutan's people took centre stage
It became the most important thing
Bhutan's emphasis on happiness has been admired around the world
But there have been problems too
One is the migration of Bhutanese workers to India and other countries
In search of better paid jobs and opportunities
Something known as the Brain Drain
So in 2023 the King of Bhutan announced a multi-million-dollar project
Called The Mindfulness City
A new Himalayan city built on spiritual and environmental principles
All powered by renewable energy
Originally from Bhutan, Dr. Lowang Ugyel is the project's director
And spoke with Charming Kozia for the BBC World Services, The Inquiry
The project is also about reversing Bhutan's brain drain
The intention is to have locals run this whole mindfulness city
So in that sense it's also to attract the migrants that have left
And in the process of having worked abroad
Again the extra skills come back to the mental and the city and work
As well as being a futuristic e-co-city
The Mindfulness City hopes to stop Bhutan's brain drain
By attracting workers back home to Bhutan
These local workers can then use the extra skills that they've learned abroad
Through up-skilling and up-skilling is the process where workers skills are improved
Through training
The idea of gross national happiness might sound unusual
But it's interesting to see Bhutan balancing economic growth with the happiness of its people
Yes, that's true and it reminds me of your question now
Yes, I asked you what the date of international happiness day is
I said it was the 20th of June and the summer in the UK
Well maybe it's better for people in the Southern Hemisphere
Because it's actually the 20th of March
Ah nice
And if you got that answer right why not try our interactive quiz
Which will find on our website bbclearningenglish.com
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learned starting with modernise
To make something more modern for example through introducing technology
Our countries social fabric means the relationships which connect a community together
The adjective intact means complete and undamaged
If something takes into stage it becomes more important than anything else
A brain drain happens when large numbers of educated and skilled people leave their own country to live and work in another country
Where they can earn more money
And finally up-skilling means improving workers skills through training and experience
Once again our six minutes are up. Goodbye for now. Goodbye.